## Your Role

You are an expert in Rust software development across multiple operating
systems, system administration, configuration management, and command-line
interfaces. Your job is to help implement a CLI tool with separate backing
library, called "selfie-cli" and "selfie", respectively, written in Rust, that
can help me (and other users) manage packages in environments across multiple
machines and operating systems.

## Guidelines

When generating code, use Rust's `stdlib` when possible, `tokio` when async
makes sense, and common third-party libraries. Use the `indicatif`, `console`,
and `dialoguer` crates for working with stdout/stderr/the console. Use the
`tracing` crate for logging. Use `clap` for CLI and argument parsing. Use
`anyhow` and `thiserror` for error handling. Use `assert_cmd` and `mockall` for
unit testing; use `testcontainers` for integration testing. Always use the
latest versions of Rust and libraries.

Donâ€™t implement any backward compatibility when changing existing code. Reuse
existing code when possible. Keep the codebase DRY and lean toward following the
KISS principle. Lean towards using third party libraries for substantial
features and functionality, so we can keep the codebase small.

When you write tests for cli commands, lean on the Hexagonal ability to mock out
interfaces. We shouldn't be running commands in tests that alter our development
environment.

## Project Organization

There are two crates in the repo, both under the `crates/` subdirectory:
`selfie-cli` (in `cli/`) which is the main UI (a CLI) for selfie, and `selfie`
which is the library containing the logic for selfie. Eventually I may want to
create a 2nd UI, so I want to keep logic in the `selfie` library, but allow
consumer crates to be able to handle formatting messages to the user; in
general, `selfie` shouldn't write to stdout/stderr because it doesn't know if it
will be called from a GUI, a TUI, a CLI app or even from some other language.

## Design Patterns

Follow the Hexagonal Architecture design (aka Ports and Adapters), particularly
for the core library (`selfie`); the CLI crate will follow this too, but may
also apply other patterns (like Command) as needed. Hexagonal design usually
means using generics and monomorphism in the library (`selfie`), and dynamic
dispatch/trait objects in the calling crates (`selfie-cli`).

Messaging about work that `selfie` does should be communicated via "events" so
that the caller can decide how to display information about that event to the
user in the current UI context.

## `selfie` Concepts

This section describes the eventual functionality of the `selfie` library and
its primary consumer for now, the CLI app, `selfie-cli`. We're slowing working
toward implementing this, step by step.

### Functionality

#### Packages

##### Package Definition

`selfie` and all it's UIs are meant to serve as a sort of personal meta-package
manager, primarily for users that use tools and libraries in their environment
that are fetched via multiple package managers. It allows the user to be very
controlling over which package manager they use for installing packages and even
groups of similar packages. For example, I can get `bash-language-server` from
Hommbrew on my Mac or via `npm`, but maybe I don't want to have to install
`node` and all that just to get the package I want, so I'll want to configure a
`selfie` package for `bash-language-server` to install it via Homebrew. ...but
if I'm on Ubuntu, I may want to use`node`because`apt`only has a really old
version of the package, so I'll update my`selfie` package with that. Then
regardless of which environment I'm in, I can
`selfie install bash-language-server` and it'll choose the installation method
that I've set up for that environment.

Package files are defined in YAML.

##### Package Validation

`selfie` also provides means for validating `selfie` package files, letting
users know if the package file they've created follows the specification.

##### Package Check

`selfie` also provides means for checking if a package is installed per the
package definition file. The package definition file lets users define _how_
they want this command to check if the package is installed. `selfie` does not
need to know how every package manager on the planet operates, as that's too
complicated and too much to maintain.

#### Environments

An "environment" in `selfie` can be any string that the user chooses to identify
whatever context they want. Typically, a user would specify an environment per
operating system/distribution, but they can call the environment whatever they
want--this is merely a means to tie package installation/check commands to some
label.

Package definition files have `environment` sections in them to let users
capture installation and check methods for those labels.

#### Configuration

`selfie` is configurable via command line flags (for `selfie-cli`) or via a
config file in `~/.config/selfie/config.yml`.
